src/pages/talks/dsl-with-kotlin-1.md, before:

---
templateKey: talks-post
title: DSL with Kotlin
talktitle: '"All these words I don''t just write": DSL with Kotlin, and nothing else matters'
date: 2019-07-09T07:57:48.362Z
featuredpost: false
description: >-
  You think writing your own DSL is time-consuming and complicated? Well, maybe
  you've not yet tried with Kotlin!
authors:
  - Baptiste Mesta
  - Noël Macé
type: conference (30-45min)
tags:
  - java & co
  - kotlin
  - DSL
  - language
---
At Bonitasoft, we generate code for business processes so you don't have to! You get to write only the code _you_ need, that's it!
But what if you really want to entirely code your own process, instead of using our WYSIWYG? Well, we get that the resulting Java code can be kind of bulky and not so easy to understand.
So, we decided to make a DSL (Domain Specific Language) using nothing but Kotlin. Come see us live-code it, and you'll know everything you need in order to create your own DSL in less than an hour!

## Details

I've already presented this talk, in different forms, this year at Devoxx France, QCon New York and Grenoble JUG.

With Noël Macé and some of my other colleagues, I've continuously improved it since the beginning. I was able to make it into a live-coding session at QCon NYC. We start with a long and complicated Java Code and progressively refactor it into a really light and self-explaining code with Kotlin, introducing a real DSL step by step.

Now, we would like to bring this talk to a whole new level, inspired by this new title and also by Metallica. We are rewriting it as a play, with a scenario and all (it would be even better if we could have some lighting on the stage), where we live code together and explain in a humorous way every part of Kotlin we use. And if we can also start by playing an unplugged parody of "Nothing Else Matters," it could be really something ;)

## Notes

Can also be a Tools-in-action session.

Here are some of the code we use during the presentation:

* https://github.com/bonitasoft-labs/process-kotlin-dsl
* https://github.com/bonitasoft-labs/bonita-engine-spring-boot
* https://github.com/bonitasoft-labs/bonita-connector-email-dsl
* https://github.com/bonitasoft-labs/process-kotlin-dsl-request-loan

Commit message:

fix: rephrase abstract intro & fix wording issues
As we where talking about Bonita first, I decided to rephrase this abstract intro in order to emphasise the issue we're trying to solve instead.

src/pages/talks/dsl-with-kotlin-1.md, after:

---
templateKey: talks-post
title: DSL with Kotlin
talktitle: '"All these words I don''t just say": DSL with Kotlin, and nothing else matters'
date: 2019-07-09T07:57:48.362Z
featuredpost: false
description: >-
  You think writing your own DSL is time-consuming and complicated? Well, maybe
  you've not yet tried with Kotlin!
authors:
  - Baptiste Mesta
  - Noël Macé
type: conference (30-45min)
tags:
  - java & co
  - kotlin
  - DSL
  - language
---
Sometime, code can get bulky, and not so easy to understand.
The platform we created, Bonita, generates code to run business processes so you don't have to. You get to write only the code _you_ need and that's all! But if you want to entirely code your own process, instead of using our WYSIWYG, well... Java can get complicated.
So, we decided to make a DSL (Domain Specific Language) for that, using nothing but Kotlin!
Come see us live-code it, and you'll know everything you need in order to create your own DSL in less than an hour!

## Details

I've already presented this talk, in different forms, this year at Devoxx France, QCon New York and Grenoble JUG.

With Noël Macé and some of my other colleagues, I've continuously improved it since the beginning. I was able to make it into a live-coding session at QCon NYC. We start with a long and complicated Java Code and progressively refactor it into a really light and self-explaining code with Kotlin, introducing a real DSL step by step.

Now, we would like to bring this talk to a whole new level, inspired by this new title and also by Metallica. We are rewriting it as a play, with a scenario and all (it will be even better if we can have some lighting on the stage), where we live code together and explain in a humorous way every part of Kotlin we use. And if we can also start by playing an unplugged parody of "Nothing Else Matters," it could be really something ;)

## Notes

Can also be a Tools-in-action session.

Here are some of the code we use during the presentation:

* https://github.com/bonitasoft-labs/process-kotlin-dsl
* https://github.com/bonitasoft-labs/bonita-engine-spring-boot
* https://github.com/bonitasoft-labs/bonita-connector-email-dsl
* https://github.com/bonitasoft-labs/process-kotlin-dsl-request-loan
