src/pages/talks/fire-conference.md, before:

---
templateKey: talks-post
title: FIRE conference
talktitle: "The Web is on \U0001F525 F.I.R.E. \U0001F525 !!! (conference edition)"
date: '2019-07-18'
featuredpost: true
description: >-
  The F.I.R.E. safety kit for everyone! Learn the best new capabilities of the
  modern web in one shot without burning out!
descriptionfr: "Toutes les dernières nouveautés de la Web Platform, leurs apports niveau UX, et des cas concret ! En un talk ! \U0001F92F\n\n"
authors:
  - noelmace
type: conference (30-45min)
selectedat:
  - Devfest Nantes 2019
slides: 'https://fire.noelmace.com'
videos:
  - 'https://youtu.be/OQ-dr-7pLaA'
tags:
  - webdev
  - performance
  - UX
  - PWA
bodyfr: >-
  La Web Plateforme évolue en permanence ! Et ça fait 4 ans qu'on évoque les 4
  même technos pour appliquer les 4 grands éléments qui font une bonne web app :
  Fast, Integrated, Reliable & Engaging !


  Il est temps de se mettre à jour ! Prenons quelques minutes pour :

   1. faire le point sur les tous derniers drafts du W3C, WICG et WHATWG
   2. les démontrer dans le browser
   3. présenter leurs application concrètes et ce que ça apporte à nos utilisateurs
   4. découvrir une méthodologie globale pour toujours opérer la transition sereinement

  Alors, prêt pour le turfu du web ?!


  ## Détails


  Sous la même bannière "Web on F.I.R.E.", je présente depuis 1 an deux aspects
  :


  1. bien utiliser les toutes dernières évolutions afin de proposer une
  meilleure expérience utilisateur

  2. déconstruire de fausses idées que la communauté se fait au sujet des PWA et
  de la Web Plateforme


  L’acronyme "F.I.R.E." me sert donc ici de fil conducteur afin de toujours
  ramener une techno à son intérêt concret pour l'utilisateur, plutôt que de
  présenter celle-ci uniquement d'un point de vue technique sans contexte.


  Pas d'inventaire à la Prévert donc, mais une vrais vision globale et concrète
  de ce que les évolutions du web nous apportent.


  Cela a donné lieu à une université au Breizhcamp (voir la vidéo
  https://youtu.be/OQ-dr-7pLaA), un workshop au Bestofweb, et plusieurs talks
  détaillants une techno ou méthodologie en particulier.


  Pour plus de détails, voir fire.noelmace.com.
---
## Elevator Pitch

The Web platform is constantly evolving...and it's been 4 years now that we are still talking about the same 4 technologies for the 4 key elements that make a great web app: Fast, Integrated, Reliable & Engaging.

It's time to get up to speed!

## Details

Let's take a few minutes to:

1. take stock of the latest W3C, WICG and WHATWG drafts
2. demonstrate each of them in the browser
3. present concrete applications and what each brings to our users
4. explore a global methodology to always transition smoothly

## Requirements

Basic knowledge of javascript and webdev

## Notes for reviewers

For two years, since I presented the first talk called "Web on F.I.R.E.," I have focused my attention on this subject. It offers web development best practices in two ways:

1. how to use the latest evolution of the web platform to provide a better user experience
2. deconstruction of misconceptions that the community has about PWA and the Web platform

Here, I use the "F.I.R.E." acronym as a category under which I can offer a number of related talks on the Progressive Web App principles & modern web benefits. This way, I can always keep a focus on the real, concrete benefits a new technology can bring to the end-user, with context, rather than presenting it only from a technical perspective.

Therefore, this is not just a list of ongoing additions to the web standards, but a global and concrete vision of what these advances could bring to us, the developers & web app end-users.

This work gave rise to a university at Breizhcamp (see the video on [youtu.be/OQ-dr-7pLaA](https://youtu.be/OQ-dr-7pLaA)), a workshop at BestOfWeb, and several close-up sessions, each detailing a particular technology or methodology.

This same talk will also be given soon at [Devfest Nantes](https://devfest.gdgnantes.com/fr/).

For more details, see [fire.noelmace.com](https://fire.noelmace.com).

Commit message:

fix: fire conference body
As the description field can work as an elevator pitch, I don't need to
write a shorter abstract.

src/pages/talks/fire-conference.md, after:

---
templateKey: talks-post
title: FIRE conference
talktitle: "The Web is on \U0001F525 F.I.R.E. \U0001F525 !!! (conference edition)"
date: '2019-07-18'
featuredpost: true
description: >-
  The F.I.R.E. safety kit for everyone! Learn the best new capabilities of the
  modern web in one shot without burning out!
descriptionfr: "Toutes les dernières nouveautés de la Web Platform, leurs apports niveau UX, et des cas concret ! En un talk ! \U0001F92F\n\n"
authors:
  - noelmace
type: conference (30-45min)
selectedat:
  - Devfest Nantes 2019
slides: 'https://fire.noelmace.com'
videos:
  - 'https://youtu.be/OQ-dr-7pLaA'
tags:
  - webdev
  - performance
  - UX
  - PWA
bodyfr: >-
  La Web Plateforme évolue en permanence ! Et ça fait 4 ans qu'on évoque les 4
  même technos pour appliquer les 4 grands éléments qui font une bonne web app :
  Fast, Integrated, Reliable & Engaging !


  Il est temps de se mettre à jour ! Prenons quelques minutes pour :

   1. faire le point sur les tous derniers drafts du W3C, WICG et WHATWG
   2. les démontrer dans le browser
   3. présenter leurs application concrètes et ce que ça apporte à nos utilisateurs
   4. découvrir une méthodologie globale pour toujours opérer la transition sereinement

  Alors, prêt pour le turfu du web ?!


  ## Détails


  Sous la même bannière "Web on F.I.R.E.", je présente depuis 1 an deux aspects
  :


  1. bien utiliser les toutes dernières évolutions afin de proposer une
  meilleure expérience utilisateur

  2. déconstruire de fausses idées que la communauté se fait au sujet des PWA et
  de la Web Plateforme


  L’acronyme "F.I.R.E." me sert donc ici de fil conducteur afin de toujours
  ramener une techno à son intérêt concret pour l'utilisateur, plutôt que de
  présenter celle-ci uniquement d'un point de vue technique sans contexte.


  Pas d'inventaire à la Prévert donc, mais une vrais vision globale et concrète
  de ce que les évolutions du web nous apportent.


  Cela a donné lieu à une université au Breizhcamp (voir la vidéo
  https://youtu.be/OQ-dr-7pLaA), un workshop au Bestofweb, et plusieurs talks
  détaillants une techno ou méthodologie en particulier.


  Pour plus de détails, voir fire.noelmace.com.
---
## Abstract

The Web platform is constantly evolving...and it's been 4 years now that we are still talking about the same 4 technologies for the 4 key elements that make a great web app: Fast, Integrated, Reliable & Engaging.

It's time to get up to speed!

Let's take a few minutes to:

1. take stock of the latest W3C, WICG and WHATWG drafts
2. demonstrate each of them in the browser
3. present concrete applications and what each brings to our users
4. explore a global methodology to always transition smoothly

So, are you ready for the future of the web?

## Requirements

Basic knowledge of javascript and webdev

## Notes for reviewers

For two years, since I presented the first talk called "Web on F.I.R.E.," I have focused my attention on this subject. It offers web development best practices in two ways:

1. how to use the latest evolution of the web platform to provide a better user experience
2. deconstruction of misconceptions that the community has about PWA and the Web platform

Here, I use the "F.I.R.E." acronym as a category under which I can offer a number of related talks on the Progressive Web App principles & modern web benefits. This way, I can always keep a focus on the real, concrete benefits a new technology can bring to the end-user, with context, rather than presenting it only from a technical perspective.

Therefore, this is not just a list of ongoing additions to the web standards, but a global and concrete vision of what these advances could bring to us, the developers & web app end-users.

This work gave rise to a university at Breizhcamp (see the video on [youtu.be/OQ-dr-7pLaA](https://youtu.be/OQ-dr-7pLaA)), a workshop at BestOfWeb, and several close-up sessions, each detailing a particular technology or methodology.

This same talk will also be given soon at [Devfest Nantes](https://devfest.gdgnantes.com/fr/).

For more details, see [fire.noelmace.com](https://fire.noelmace.com).
